hi my name is Neil I'm with the Train
team we're setting up a little video
here for you so we can demonstrate the
the purpose of the jetter the
circumstances in which would use the
jetter
what we have here is a piece of 3-inch
clear PVC pipe and what it has in it is
basically a household cooking grease it
has Crisco grease in it and some dirt
and we want to demonstrate the
difference between cabling and jetting
so we're going to get this video started
here and you guys can take a look and
see for yourself we're going to start
out with a three inch blade and a
regular cable and we're going to insert
this dissimilar to snake into the pipe
and we're going to demonstrate what
happens when you're using a cable on
this type of situation and the lack of
effectiveness you would get by using
this type of equipment for this type of
job as you can see cable is turning
through the grease turn into the dirt
that's inside the pipe and it's going to
make a hole through it as you can see it
going through the pipe right now we're
going to go further and further through
it with it with cutter blade you see
it's a whole width of the pipe you can
see it's great from the sides of the
pipe as we push that way we made that
way through the dirt now we're going
into the grease portion of it and we're
going to put your salt away through this
pipe until we get to the other side and
and then when we get done doing this
we'll pull the cable back out and we're
going to demonstrate how we put some
water in the other end that you'll
actually get flow through the pipe but
you're going to see when we even though
when you do get flow that pipe is not
really and really the only way to get it
here open up this by easily better
if you cable out right now most the end
of the pipe step the seer machine off
and stuff in the top as you can see it's
quite a mess if we bring it out unless
what your pipes look like on the inside
there's a typical buildup that you would
get in a kitchen sink on a residential
house or a little bit of building you're
going to see this and all the lines
underneath the kitchen just from the use
of all the grease and everything is
doing for launching dishes and pots and
pans and it builds up over time
now you're going to we're going to
demonstrate as we just cabled it the
line was completely stopped up before
and what we're doing is we're putting
water in it and we get a good flow as
you can sign so it appears that the line
is open but as you take a look inside
you're going to see that the pipe you
can see some light through it but
obviously the pipes not open this is our
jeder this jeder is one of the best on
the market use 16 gallons a minute which
is very important and when jetting
because of the volume you need in order
to displace
the grease or debris that's inside the
line a lot of jetters only put out four
five or maybe twelve gallons a minute
fifteen gallon
had we just put in there is a rotary
nozzle it's a $1,200 head it has one
nozzle facing forward to penetrate and
then two nozzles facing backwards that
rotates now as you look inside this pipe
you're going to see that I have the
pressure turned down on the Jetta right
now because I want you to understand
what it's doing and you can see right
now there's a nozzle spraying forward
and there's a couple nozzles cleaning
the side of the pipe as if rotating the
pressure is way down so the nozzle is
barely turning but even though it's
turning so slow and the pressures down
you can see the effectiveness of how it
can clean a pipe now as we go a little
bit further in this video we're going to
go ahead and turn the pressure up on
this thing which we can turn it all the
way up to 4000 psi if necessary but it's
not really necessary to public like
typically we'll run it at 3000 psi and
we're going to demonstrate here in a
little bit
what 3000 psi looks like inside this
pipe
this wine had six pounds of Crisco
grease and about two pounds of dirt in
it and that's what we used for
demonstration and I after jetted go
ahead and we'll show you we'll take a
look inside
and as you can see pipe is totally clear
and open and there's going to be no
problem with anything flowing